News and events
Get current updates from the Department of Public Health (DPH)
Keep up to date on the state of Connecticut’s public health. Explore the latest from DPH, including:
Latest news and press releases
Videos, advertisements and communications
Upcoming meetings, hearings, and events
Contact information for media and legislative inquiries
View board meetings and administrative hearings
Important Links
Ads and communications
Watch the television commercials from DPH’s most recent advertising campaign.
Podcast
Listen to Connecticut's Health Report, the Connecticut Department of Public Health's official biweekly podcast.
Press Releases
Get critical updates from DPH. Review our most recent press releases. Find up-to-date advisories, recommendations, guidelines, and more.
YouTube channel
View the complete video library from the Department of Public Health.
Public health spotlight
August is National Breastfeeding Month
August is National Breastfeeding Month, a time to recognize the importance of supporting families throughout their infant feeding journey and to raise awareness about the resources available to help families reach their feeding goals.
Breastfeeding and human milk provides important health benefits for both babies and parents. However, every family’s feeding journey is unique, and families may choose to breastfeed, provide expressed milk, use donor human milk, bottle feed, or combine different feeding methods. Access to education, support, and resources can help parents make informed decisions that work best for their family.
Throughout National Breastfeeding Month, the Connecticut Department of Public Health is sharing resources on breastfeeding support, donor human milk, workplace protections, and other ways families can support infant health and well-being.
Together, we can help create supportive environments where all families have access to the resources they need for a healthy start.
Follow CT DPH on
Facebook
,
LinkedIn
,
X
, and
Instagram
(@ct_DPH) for more information, resources, and updates.
Learn more: Breast & Chest Feeding: It’s Worth It! – Support & Resources for Parents
Important DPH press releases
8-27-26 First case of West Nile Virus in 2026
8-24-26 State confirms third measles case of 2026
8-5-26 New 'US Disease Tracker' monitors vaccine-preventable diseases
7-27-26 CT Public Health backs 33 community organizations in new push to prevent gun violence
7-15-26 Canadian wildfire smoke triggers air quality alert
Events at the Department of Public Health
Discover what’s happening at DPH
The Department of Public Health oversees a range of meetings and events both in-person and via video conference:
Board and committee meetings
Administrative hearings
Local health hearings
Explore all DPH events via the State Agency Public Meeting Calendar, or find events by type below.
View our full events calendar
Find events by type
Board and committee meetings
Find meeting dates and information for Connecticut’s public health oversight boards and commissions. Review meeting minutes and agendas from past meetings organized by date.
Public health administrative hearings
Get information on DPH administrative hearings, including date and time, subject matter, videos, and minutes. Find video conference links to join hearings remotely.
Contact Us
Get in touch with DPH
Address:
410 Capitol Avenue
Hartford, CT 06103
Phone:
860-509-8000
Email:
askdph@ct.gov
Visit our About page for full contact information
For media and legislative inquiries and requests
Brittany Schaefer - Public Information Officer
Marketing and Communications Office
Phone:
860-706-9654
Email:
brittany.schaefer@ct.gov
Learn more about the Marketing and Communications Office
Miriam Miller, MPH (she/her) - Policy Director
Government Relations Office
Address:
410 Capitol Ave, MS#13CMN, Hartford, CT 06134
Phone:
860-509-7110
Email:
Miriam.miller@ct.gov
Learn more about the Government Relations Office