Press Office
Home
About Us
Public Information Hub
Press Office

Explore Section
About Us
Office of the Superintendent
Administrative Services
RLD Enforcement Bureau
Public Information Hub
Accessibility Statement
Annual Reports
State Tribal Collaboration Act
Financial Institutions Annual Report
New Mexico Cannabis Market Studies
Consumer Resources
Family
Best Practices for Investing
Crowdfunding
Ten Tips for Online Investors
Military
Credit Report – Active Duty Alert
Emergency Relief Funds
Savings Deposit Program
Thrift Savings Plan
Senior Citizens
5 Ways Seniors Can Protect Themselves
Avoid Becoming a Victim of Fraud
Elder Investment Fraud & Financial Exploitation Prevention Program
How Swindlers Find Victims
SeniorSafe
Native American Outreach
Teachers and Students
Additional Resources
CROP
Inspection of Public Records
Online Services
Verify a License
Enforcement Actions
Social Media Policy
Press Office
Procurement
Staff Directory
Careers at NMRLD
Press Office
June 15 marks World Elder Abuse Awareness Day
Jun 11, 2026
State urges action to stop elder financial exploitation in New Mexico SANTA FE — Financial exploitation remains a growing threat to older New Mexicans, and World Elder Abuse Awareness Day is a great reminder to revisit what you know about financial exploitation and...
read more
State marks National Consumer Protection Week with prevention push
Mar 3, 2026
Securities Division remains focused on fraud awareness and prevention SANTA FE – New Mexicans made 10,638 reports of fraud to the Federal Trade Commission in 2025, totaling $50.7 million in losses. This National Consumer Protection Week, March 1-7, the Securities...
read more
State recalls medical cannabis edible
Feb 26, 2026
February 26, 2026 SANTA FE –The state has ordered a mandatory recall of a medical cannabis lollipop after regulators found it exceeded the legal THC limit. The Cannabis Control Division determined that the edible cannabis product, manufactured by GH LLC and sold...
read more
Don’t let scammers steal your holiday spirit
Dec 18, 2025
New Mexico Securities Division unveils the top investor threats SANTA FE — The New Mexico Securities Division warns New Mexicans about new, sophisticated schemes bad actors are using to steal money from investors. Drawing on data from the North American Securities...
read more
Scammers offer tricks, not treats, this Halloween
Oct 30, 2025
State regulator shares tips for fraud prevention SANTA FE – The New Mexico Securities Division is warning the public not to be fooled this Halloween by deceptive digital content and to stay alert for scammers masquerading as government officials, law enforcement, or...
read more
Safeguard Metals liable for $51 million in precious metals fraud
Oct 23, 2025
Company defrauded 450 elderly investors nationwide SANTA FE – Safeguard Metals LLC and its owner Jeffrey Ikahn will pay $51.2 million in restitution and penalties for defrauding 450 elderly investors out of retirement savings in a precious metals scheme, state and...
read more
New Mexico joins multistate settlement with financial firms for overcharging customers
Jun 25, 2025
Impacted New Mexicans will receive restitution plus interest SANTA FE – The New Mexico Securities Division announced today that is has joined a multistate settlement with Edward Jones, LPL Financial, RBC, Stifel, and TD Ameritrade following an investigation into...
read more
Cannabis enforcement bill headed to governor’s desk
Mar 18, 2025
SANTA FE – A bill that would establish an enforcement bureau within the Regulation and Licensing Department and expand the Cannabis Control Division’s regulatory authority is one step away from becoming law after passing the New Mexico Senate today. House Bill 10 will...
read more
Bill strengthening cannabis enforcement clears House
Feb 21, 2025
HB 10 gives Cannabis Control Division more authority over illicit activity SANTA FE — A bipartisan bill that would establish an enforcement bureau within the New Mexico Regulation and Licensing Department and expand the Cannabis Control Division’s regulatory authority...
read more
New Mexico joins $106 million settlement with Vanguard over big tax bills
Jan 28, 2025
SANTA FE — Today, the New Mexico Securities Division, as part of a task force of state securities regulators and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC), announced a $106 million settlement with Vanguard Marketing Corporation and The Vanguard Group, Inc....
read more
Press Release Archives
For Media Inquiries:
Andrea Brown, Communications Director
New Mexico Regulation and Licensing Department
505.819.1822
Andrea.Brown@rld.nm.gov
$
Public Information Records Request
Manage Cookie Consent
We use cookies to optimize our website and our service.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
Preferences
Save preferences
Preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent
Skip to content