North Dakota
Board
of Dental Examiners
About
Links
News
Events
Contact
Practitioners
Quick Links: Permits, Military Licensing, ND Medical Reserve Corps
Criminal History Background Check
Dentist
Dentist Overview
Volunteer License for Dentists
Inactive Licenses | Reinstating an Inactive License
Name and Address Changes
Print Dentist License
Dermal Fillers and Botulinum Toxin
Initial - Dentist
Initial Applications - Dentists
Internationally Trained Dentist
Anesthesia - Dentist
Anesthesia Overview
Minimal Sedation
Moderate Sedation
General Anesthesia and Deep Sedation
Hygienist
Hygienist Overview
Volunteer License for Dental Hygienists
Inactive License | Reinstating an Inactive License
Name and Address Changes
Print Hygienist License
Initial - Hygienist
Initial Application - Dental Hygienist
Permits Available to Hygienists
Assistant
Dental Assistant Overview
Name and Address Changes
Print Dental Assistant Certificate of Registration
RDA
Overview of the Registered Dental Assistant
Applying to be a Registered Dental Assistant
RDA Permits and Endorsements
RDA Permits and Endorsements
QDA
Applying to be a Qualified Dental Assistant
Permits Available to Qualified Dental Assistants
Permits Available to Qualified Dental Assistants
QDA-LRR
Qualified Dental Assistant - Limited Radiology Registrant
Application Status for New License/Registration
Application Status: Login
Renewal- All License/Registration
License & Registration Renewal
Continuing Education
Continuing Education Overview
Jurisprudence Exam for CE
Jurisprudence Examination
Consumers
Complaints Overview
Board Meetings
Newsbites
Verification & Roster
Verification & Roster
Verification & Roster
Laws & Regulations
Legislative Activity
Laws and Rules
Home
Consumers
Newsbites
Newsbites
News
Administering Nitrous Oxide v. Monitoring Patients
8/27/2026
Administering Nitrous Oxide to a Patient
(a Board-issued permit is required)
Which staff members may be delegated the duty of
administering
nitrous oxide to patients?
Registered Dental Hygienists.
Registered Dental Assistants.
Before a dentist can delegate the duty of administering nitrous oxide to a patient, the RDH or RDA must first complete Board-approved training, submit a nitrous oxide permit application, and be granted a permit by the Board.
The application for a nitrous oxide administration permit may be found here:
https://www.nddentalboard.org/www/download_resource.asp?id=540
Which staff members
may not
be delegated the duty of administering nitrous oxide to patients under any circumstance?
Qualified Dental Assistants.
Qualified Dental Assistant-Limited Radiology Registrants.
Unregistered Dental Assistants.
The law does not allow QDAs, QDA-LRRs, and UDAs to be granted a permit to administer nitrous oxide to patients.
Monitoring a Patient Who has been Induced into Nitrous Oxide
Which staff members may be delegated the duty of
monitoring
a patient who is induced into nitrous oxide?
Registered Dental Hygienists and Registered Dental Assistants.
RDHs and RDAs may monitor patients who are induced into nitrous oxide. They do not need any additional training beyond what they originally completed when they became RDHs and RDAs. They must be under a dentist’s indirect supervision and do not need to be issued a permit for this duty.
Fully trained Qualified Dental Assistants, Qualified Dental Assistant-Limited Radiology Registrants and Unregistered Dental Assistants.
Before monitoring a patient who a permit-holder has induced into nitrous oxide, a QDA, a QDA-LRR, or a UDA must be fully trained on the duty to the dentist’s satisfaction. The training can be in-house, can include outside resources, or a combination of education tools. Once the dentist is satisfied with the skill level of their assistant, the dentist may delegate this duty. The dentist must retain the training records.
The assistant must be under a dentist’s direct supervision and does not need to be issued a permit for this duty.
Which staff members
may not
be delegated the duty of monitoring a patient who has been induced into nitrous oxide?
A QDA, QDA-LRR, or UDA who has not been fully trained to the satisfaction of the supervising dentist.
In addition to understanding the above summary, it is important to review the laws relating to these (and all) duties. Please do so. The laws may be found here:
Laws and Rules - ND Dental Board
. Specific cites to the nitrous oxide duties referenced above are as follows:
A nitrous oxide permit is required: NDAC 20-02-01-05(1)(f)
An RDH who has been issued a nitrous oxide administration permit from the Board may administer nitrous oxide to a patient: NDAC 20-04-01-01(2)(g)
An RDH may monitor patients induced into nitrous oxide: NDAC 20-04-01-01(2)(d)
An RDA who has been issued a nitrous oxide administration permit from the Board may administer nitrous oxide to a patient: NDAC 20-03-01-01(4)
An RDA may monitor patients induced into nitrous oxide: NDAC 20-03-01-01(5)(e)
A QDA, QDA-LRR, and UDA who has been fully trained to the satisfaction of the dentist may monitor patients who have been induced into nitrous oxide: NDAC 20-03-01-01(a)(12).
Professional Health Program-Fee Required
7/9/2026
New rules took effect on April 1, 2026. Part of those rules require dentists to pay a $75.00 fee to offset the cost of operating the new Professional Health Program. That $75.00 payment is due now!
Internet Searches and Artificial Intelligence
2/9/2026
Internet browsers and artificial intelligence tools can be an invaluable aid for efficiently navigating issues in the dental profession. At the same time, they must be used with care.
The Board has...
Consumers
Complaints Overview
Board Meetings
Newsbites
Verification & Roster
Contact Us
Board of Dental Examiners
PO Box 7246
Bismarck
,
ND
58507
US
Phone:
701-258-8600
Email:
Contact Form
|
info@nddentalboard.org
© 2026 ND State Board of Dental Examiners. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Service